# git cont.

A few examples of working with git
- I use it to track my own project changes, and to store it remotely.
- I create a repository with multple owners (collaborators). All collaborators have access to edit the repository and work together.
- I like someone else's project and I'd like to contribute to it. I *fork* their repository, and can suggest updates to the owner via *Pull Requests*.

<br>

### Creating a new repo
- Create an *empty* `project-name` in GitHub.com (make sure all the optional settings are off)
- On your local machine, create a folder called `project-name` (make sure to use exact same name)
- Follow the instruction provided by GitHub

### Creating a new repo - alternative way
- Create a `project-name` in GitHub.com 
    - Make sure to toggle on "Add README" this time
- On the top right there's a green button that says "Code". Select it, select SSH and copy *URL* to clipboard. 
- Open terminal and navigate to your root directory ~ (or anywhere else you'd like to place the project). Execute the command: `git clone URL`


### Forking a repo
- Go to the repo you'd like to fork on GitHub.com. On the top right, press the "Fork" button. Then press "Create fork". Now, if you go to your Repositories you can find it saved on your account.
- Next step is to clone the repository using SSH - `git clone URL`.


### Branching
- `git branch` to view all branches and check which one you're currently in (press q to exit)
- `git checkout branch-name` to switch to a branch
- `git checkout -b branch-name` to create a new branch and switch to it

### After you switch to your own branch
- Make any changes to files you'd like to make. These will be your local changes. Follow the next steps to push them to the remote repository instance. 
- `git add filename`
    - or for multiple files: `git add .` to add all files that have been changed in current directory you're in
- `git commit -m "Enter your commit message here"`
- `git push`


## Exercises 

### Change zsh theme
- type `open ~/.zshrc` in the terminal
- cmd + F to search for "ZSH_THEME"
- change variable to `ZSH_THEME=robbyrussell` and save
- restart the Terminal app

### Forking
- Fork https://github.com/marinakainos/training
- Create a new branch and switch to it
- Add a new file `your-name.txt` in `fork-files-go-here/` folder
- Commit & push the new file you created
- Lastly, go to https://github.com/marinakainos/training, and click "Compare & pull request" -> "Create pull request"